Comments March 3:

"The types are; social, fearful, challenging, and aloof." get rid of semicolon
"with examples of a passive and aggressive version of each personality.": delete, already get this from the previous sentence clause.

"accounting for the times of day and the scale for the number of tail swishes." not sure what you mean here....were these the challenges? may need rewording.

"horse was grazing or calmly moving around the space, than on how many": get rid of comma

"This is a consistent school of thought, across both sources referenced here (Foster, Barteau).": delete and add (Foster, Barteau) to previous sentence.

Add a very short paragraph at the end giving an outline of what you will be discussing in the rest of the paper.

Methods:

"observations are outliers in that regard." usually outlier referes to an outlier in the response variable. If they are different than the way the other horses were
treated, maybe think about using a phrase involving representation instead.

"as noted how often the horses were swishing their tails " you can figure this out from the table but mention in the text whether tail swishing is positive or negative.

"Upon the completion of data collection overall turnout scores were calculated. "add comma

"This was done by adding; the minutes grazing, tail swishing score (if positive) , positive friend interactions, and minutes laying down together to be a positive score. " get rid of semicolon
(a semicolon is most often used to separate two complete sentences, much like a comma. Like "I am reading this paper right now; the paper is about is horses."

"kept and are ": delete

EDA:

"Average Number of Negative Signs for each Personality" table: add sample size column here.

"Time of Day vs. Total Negative Signs": we may have talked about this but you will need to use lubridate to make time a time variable so that it is ordered correctly.

"It looks like certain fields have more success but it also needs to be considered which horses go in those fields.": can you explain this a bit more? Do you have 
know something that the reader should know about which horses tend to go in which fields?

"This is really chaotic and hard to interpret, with no clear trends.": I wouldn't really call it "chaotic." I would just say that there does not seem to be a strong
relationship between age and the number of negative signs, or something like that.

Graphing Section: Maybe add something at the beginning that explains what each point is...is there one point per horse? or is it one point per horse observation?

multilevel unconditional means model: it's common to actually write out the model and define each term....also, isn't this a test to see if the horses need different intercepts
(not necessarily different slopes).

need to add a wrap-up conclusion section. If you wanted the reader to take away just 2 or 3 things, what would these be?
what are some limitations?
what would you do if you had time to collect more data?

Comments February 24:

Added line numbers to introduction

Line 2: no comma

Line 3: Elsa Gunnison ....Hall in Canton, NY, is the facility where the horses were kept and the data was collected (switches to active voice instead of passive).

Lines 4-6: Too detailed for Intro: this would go more in Methods. Can generalize it more: don't need to know that they were 30 minute intervals at this point, for example. The intro 
is meant to be a bit more broad.

Lines 10 through 26: many of these need further explanation. For example, what is Group? I suppose that for some of these you __would__ need to know the intervals were 30 minutes so 
that might actually make sense to keep in the Intro.

Line 29: Most papers do not (and should not) be presented with what you did in chronological order. The reader usually doesn't really care that you looked into the four personality types
after this (so "upon further research, it was confirmed" should be deleted).

Line 30: Delete Barteau wrote an article published in Dressage Today in 2007. A reader can jump straight to your references if they want this info.

Line 32: No ;

Line 37: second person "you" generally not used in papers.

Line 46: need to pick either first or third person for the __entire__ introduction. The choice is up to you, but just cannot mix third person (lines 1-46) with first person ("I/We")

Line 51: no ,

Line 52 - 53: somewhat awkward wording of the sentence.

General Comment: Ideally, the introduction would be written so that it integrates all sources simultaneously, as opposed to having a paragraph for the first source followed by a paragraph
for the second source.

We will chat later today to see if you have questions about these comments!



Comments February 15: One thing that we can tackle before we start using shiny (which we will start in Data Viz next week) is adding a short introduction section. The
literature review you pushed is a great start to this: you can use many of these sources in your introduction. You might also look at the references from those sources and see
if any of them would be worthwhile reading.

In addition to general background from those sources, the introduction can also describe your broad motivation and goals for the project. The final paragraph of it should then
give a quick preview of the rest of the write-up. You might save this final paragraph for when the write-up is actually complete (it may be easire to describe what the reader
should expect __after__ you already write the methods, results, and discussion.

Nice work!



Comments for Dec. 2 Meeting:

Lines 5-6: "The intervals they were observed were randomized as much as possible:" need a little more detail here. Also, how did you select which horses to observe on a particular day?
If you showed up to take observations, which horses did you decide to observe? This may have been out of your control but should be stated here.

Line 12: What social behaviors could be observed in horses that were alone?

Lines 22 - 27: Was the construction of a turnout score something you developed on your own or was it something present in other resources you looked at?
I imagine that it's somewhat arbitrary adding together things like "minutes" and the "swishing score" because it would be very dependent on how long the 
observation interval was. (if it was an hour, then minutes grazing would have a much stronger effect on the turnout score, whereas if it was 10 minutes,
then minutes grazing would have a much lesser effect on the turnout score).

Lines 30 - 34: I think you had a source (or multiple sources?) for this personality assessment method. If so, those should be cited here. 
If you used other sources in the methods described in earlier paragraphs, it would be good to cite those too!

Nice work, Clara! We'll chat more later today. 

Comments for Dec. 9 Meeting:

Line 7: which was.... (how did you rotate through the fields: can you describe this in just a sentence?)

Lines 8 - 9: So the schedule is set by someone else? The ones being observed "change each week" but that is entirely at the control of the equestrian supervisor, correct?

Line 16: run-on sentence: "...positive being" should start a new sentence. 

Lines 22 - 25: where did this scale come from? Why -4, -2, 2, and 4 and not -6, -3, 3, and 6 or some other numbers here?

Line 31: We will chat about references and citations at our meeting.

Line 31 - 34: run-on sentence.

Line 42: If the book that the website references at the end is available at the library, it might be better to read the chapter on horse personality types and cite that 
Ride the Right Horse: Understanding the Core Equine Personalities & How to Work with Them

